editions/2024.08.15.md, before:

# 2024.08.15

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Fireproof Uses Merkle CRDTs to Cut Database Latency](https://thenewstack.io/fireproof-uses-merkle-crdts-to-cut-database-latency/)
"The low latency, run-anywhere database combines cryptographic technologies with linked data and distributed computing approaches."

### [localfirst.fm #13 – Maggie Appleton: Barefoot Developers, AI, end-user programming](https://www.localfirst.fm/13)
The guest of the latest episode of localfirst.fm is Maggie Appleton (**@Mappletons**), a designer, anthropologist and developer who has recently explored the world of local-first by giving the closing keynote at Local-First Conf. 

### [Local-First, Now and Always!](https://lukaswerner.com/post/2024-08-13@Sqlite-Local-First)
Post by Lukas Werner regarding building a POC with CR-SQLite, which allows merging different SQLite databases together that have taken independent writes.


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Show HN: PGlite – in-browser WASM Postgres with pgvector and live sync](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41224689)
v0.2 release of PGlite — a WASM Postgres build packaged into a TypeScript/JavaScript client library, that enables you to run Postgres in the browser, Node.js and Bun. 

### [postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI interface](https://supabase.com/blog/postgres-new)
"It’s like if ChatGPT and Postgres had a love-child: launch as many databases as you want, build them with AI, create charts, create embeddings." - **[@kiwicopple](https://x.com/kiwicopple/status/1822997940983472329)**

### [Show HN: Pg_replicate – Build Postgres replication applications in Rust](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)
"pg_replicate lets you very easily build applications which can copy data (full table copies and CDC) from Postgres to any other data system."

### [Embeddable and Portable Storage for AI-Powered Apps and Personal Knowledge Graphs](https://ai.plainenglish.io/embeddable-and-portable-storage-for-ai-powered-apps-and-personal-knowledge-graphs-e46b0564e73c)
Summary of in-app embeddable databases: LevelDB, SQLite, LibSQL, Firebird, DuckDB, PGLite, CozoDB, Realm.


## ✨ Apps



## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

2024.08.15.md: add SyncLite and Onlook

editions/2024.08.15.md, after:

# 2024.08.15

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Fireproof Uses Merkle CRDTs to Cut Database Latency](https://thenewstack.io/fireproof-uses-merkle-crdts-to-cut-database-latency/)
"The low latency, run-anywhere database combines cryptographic technologies with linked data and distributed computing approaches."

### [localfirst.fm #13 – Maggie Appleton: Barefoot Developers, AI, end-user programming](https://www.localfirst.fm/13)
The guest of the latest episode of localfirst.fm is Maggie Appleton (**@Mappletons**), a designer, anthropologist and developer who has recently explored the world of local-first by giving the closing keynote at Local-First Conf. 

### [Local-First, Now and Always!](https://lukaswerner.com/post/2024-08-13@Sqlite-Local-First)
Post by Lukas Werner regarding building a POC with CR-SQLite, which allows merging different SQLite databases together that have taken independent writes.


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Show HN: PGlite – in-browser WASM Postgres with pgvector and live sync](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41224689)
v0.2 release of PGlite — a WASM Postgres build packaged into a TypeScript/JavaScript client library, that enables you to run Postgres in the browser, Node.js and Bun. 

### [postgres.new: In-browser Postgres with an AI interface](https://supabase.com/blog/postgres-new)
"It’s like if ChatGPT and Postgres had a love-child: launch as many databases as you want, build them with AI, create charts, create embeddings." - **[@kiwicopple](https://x.com/kiwicopple/status/1822997940983472329)**

### [Show HN: Pg_replicate – Build Postgres replication applications in Rust](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41209994)
"pg_replicate lets you very easily build applications which can copy data (full table copies and CDC) from Postgres to any other data system."

### [SyncLite: Bridging the Gap Between Gen AI Powered Search/RAG Applications for Edge and Cloud](https://medium.com/@mahendra.chavan/synclite-bridging-the-gap-between-gen-ai-search-rag-applications-for-edge-and-cloud-0f68b46d16d5)
"We're thrilled to introduce a solution that bridges the gap between edge and cloud for Gen AI-powered search and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) applications."

### [Embeddable and Portable Storage for AI-Powered Apps and Personal Knowledge Graphs](https://ai.plainenglish.io/embeddable-and-portable-storage-for-ai-powered-apps-and-personal-knowledge-graphs-e46b0564e73c)
Summary of in-app embeddable databases: LevelDB, SQLite, LibSQL, Firebird, DuckDB, PGLite, CozoDB, Realm.


## ✨ Apps

### [Onlook](https://onlook.dev/)
"Onlook lets you visually edit your React app and write your changes back to code in real-time". "[T]he enthusiasm behind https://onlook.dev being local-first was certainly surprising" - **[@D_R_Farell](https://x.com/D_R_Farrell)**

## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
