editions/2024.08.01.md, before:

# 2024.08.01

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [LoFi/17 Community Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/live/WP9yU8M0i9A)
The LoFi/17 community meetup took place on Tuesday July 30th, with talks by Stepan Parunashvili from Instant ("Writing a Graph-Based Sync Engine"), James Addison ("Shapeshifting media & collaboration"), and James Pearce of TinyBase ("CRDTs are the Easy Part")

### ["The current frontier for productivity software is local-first and multiplayer"](https://x.com/astralwave/status/1816371032376369509)
@astralwave argues that productivity tools like notetaking, todos and project management are a crowded space, but "almost all the [products] suck in profound ways". The "Linear playbook" is to use local-first and multiplayer functionality as a differentiator and moat in a crowded product category. 

### ["The \[local-first\] tech stack is simpler and easier to teach to devs"](https://x.com/helioscomm/status/1817298863985979825)
@helioscomm shares highlights from a talk by Brooklyn Zelenka at Our Networks 2024 describing "Agentic computing" which touches on the benefits of a local-first app architecture.


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Neon self-serve logical replication beta](https://neon.tech/docs/changelog/2024-07-26)
Neon, a serverless Postgres platform, announced availability of self-serve logical replication (beta), enabling event sourcing architecture to be built with Neon Postgres. Neon previously allowed access to logical replication in December 2023, but then temporarily disabled it until now.

### [ZeroSync release timeline update](https://discord.com/channels/830183651022471199/1246101458928144434/1267273200459321364) 
Aaron Boodman of RociCorp who are working on their new Zero sync engine, gave an update on the project's timelines: The first alpha release expected in September will be a Linear clone without Zero "abstracted yet into a reusable library". "We expect the beta to follow late this year or early next". (Note: Opening the link requires joining the [Replicache Discord](https://discord.replicache.dev/) server)

## ✨ Apps

### [TinyHub](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinyhub?tab=readme-ov-file)
A local-first GitHub app being built by James Pearce using TinyBase.


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2024.08.01.md: Zero - Reflect retirement

editions/2024.08.01.md, after:

# 2024.08.01

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [LoFi/17 Community Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/live/WP9yU8M0i9A)
The LoFi/17 community meetup took place on Tuesday July 30th, with talks by Stepan Parunashvili from Instant ("Writing a Graph-Based Sync Engine"), James Addison ("Shapeshifting media & collaboration"), and James Pearce of TinyBase ("CRDTs are the Easy Part")

### ["The current frontier for productivity software is local-first and multiplayer"](https://x.com/astralwave/status/1816371032376369509)
@astralwave argues that productivity tools like notetaking, todos and project management are a crowded space, but "almost all the [products] suck in profound ways". The "Linear playbook" is to use local-first and multiplayer functionality as a differentiator and moat in a crowded product category. 

### ["The \[local-first\] tech stack is simpler and easier to teach to devs"](https://x.com/helioscomm/status/1817298863985979825)
@helioscomm shares highlights from a talk by Brooklyn Zelenka at Our Networks 2024 describing "Agentic computing" which touches on the benefits of a local-first app architecture.


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Neon self-serve logical replication beta](https://neon.tech/docs/changelog/2024-07-26)
Neon, a serverless Postgres platform, announced availability of self-serve logical replication (beta), enabling event sourcing architecture to be built with Neon Postgres. Neon previously allowed access to logical replication in December 2023, but then temporarily disabled it until now.

### [ZeroSync release timeline update](https://discord.com/channels/830183651022471199/1246101458928144434/1267273200459321364) 
Aaron Boodman of RociCorp who are working on their new Zero sync engine, gave an update on the project's timelines: The first alpha release expected in September will be a Linear clone without Zero "abstracted yet into a reusable library". "We expect the beta to follow late this year or early next". (Note: Opening the link requires joining the [Replicache Discord](https://discord.replicache.dev/) server). In the meantime, RociCorp's Reflect has [been retired](https://rocicorp.dev/blog/retiring-reflect) in anticipation of Zero.

## ✨ Apps

### [TinyHub](https://github.com/tinyplex/tinyhub?tab=readme-ov-file)
A local-first GitHub app being built by James Pearce using TinyBase.


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
