editions/2024.10.10.md, before:

# 2024.10.10

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Jazz – Apps with Distributed State (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41748912)
HN discussion on [Jazz](https://jazz.tools/), "an open-source framework for building local-first apps"

### [Show HN: One – A new React framework unifying web, native and local-first](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41742278)
"We've partnered with Zero to make local-first work well."

### [All Applications are Becoming Distributed Systems](https://davistreybig.substack.com/p/all-applications-are-becoming-distributed)
"I would argue that modern applications are increasingly becoming distributed systems in the sense that the compute and storage model of the application is spread across client, edge, and cloud."

### [Could we build a computer designed to last at least fifty years? (2021) (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41765098)
"We can design a computer to be offline first. Once connected, it will synchronise everything that needs to be [...]" From 2021 and reposted to HN recently. 

### [Building IPDB: A Decentralized Database using Base, IPFS, and PGlite](https://www.pinata.cloud/blog/building-ipdb-a-decentralized-database-using-base-ipfs-and-pglite/)
"Companies like ElectricSQL who are developing PGlite and pushing a model where databases are local first and then sync to a remote database through a sync engine. If you take this model and find a way to create a distributed sync engine, then you have a really unique solution for the Web3 ecosystem!"


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Building offline-first mobile apps with Supabase, Flutter and Brick](https://supabase.com/blog/offline-first-flutter-apps)
"Brick is an all-in-one data manager for Flutter that handles querying and uploading between Supabase and local caches like SQLite."

### [Rewriting Pierre to be zero-latency](https://docs.pierre.co/changelog/local-first)
"This is a long article documenting how we implemented our client and server side of local-first. We hope it is helpful for anyone interested in local-first development generally or Replicache specifically."

### [How to synchronize reactive local-first apps with TinyBase](https://expo.dev/blog/how-to-synchronize-reactive-local-first-apps-with-tinybase)
"Start using TinyBase in your Expo app to build local-first apps and enable data synchronization with other devices and users."

### [p2panda](https://github.com/p2panda)
"p2panda is a user-friendly peer-to-peer protocol for secure, energy-efficient local-first web applications"


## ✨ Apps

### [Cap: Open source Loom alternative](https://cap.so/)
"We're now focused on being local first. Cap is 100% free to use locally." - [Cap on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41741422)

### [WorkWeek: Accurate time tracking, faster payroll.](https://www.workweek.co.za/)
"[W]e teamed up with PowerSync. Thanks to their local-first magic, our users can log hours, verify work, and stay productive—even if they’re battling more tumbleweeds than cell towers." - [WorkWeek on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7247588625926791168/)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2024.10.10.md: Jan Ehrhardt livestream

editions/2024.10.10.md, after:

# 2024.10.10

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Jazz – Apps with Distributed State (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41748912)
HN discussion on [Jazz](https://jazz.tools/), "an open-source framework for building local-first apps"

### [Show HN: One – A new React framework unifying web, native and local-first](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41742278)
"We've partnered with Zero to make local-first work well."

### [All Applications are Becoming Distributed Systems](https://davistreybig.substack.com/p/all-applications-are-becoming-distributed)
"I would argue that modern applications are increasingly becoming distributed systems in the sense that the compute and storage model of the application is spread across client, edge, and cloud."

### [Could we build a computer designed to last at least fifty years? (2021) (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41765098)
"We can design a computer to be offline first. Once connected, it will synchronise everything that needs to be [...]" From 2021 and reposted to HN recently. 

### [Building IPDB: A Decentralized Database using Base, IPFS, and PGlite](https://www.pinata.cloud/blog/building-ipdb-a-decentralized-database-using-base-ipfs-and-pglite/)
"Companies like ElectricSQL who are developing PGlite and pushing a model where databases are local first and then sync to a remote database through a sync engine. If you take this model and find a way to create a distributed sync engine, then you have a really unique solution for the Web3 ecosystem!"


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Building offline-first mobile apps with Supabase, Flutter and Brick](https://supabase.com/blog/offline-first-flutter-apps)
"Brick is an all-in-one data manager for Flutter that handles querying and uploading between Supabase and local caches like SQLite."

### [Rewriting Pierre to be zero-latency](https://docs.pierre.co/changelog/local-first)
"This is a long article documenting how we implemented our client and server side of local-first. We hope it is helpful for anyone interested in local-first development generally or Replicache specifically."

### [How to synchronize reactive local-first apps with TinyBase](https://expo.dev/blog/how-to-synchronize-reactive-local-first-apps-with-tinybase)
"Start using TinyBase in your Expo app to build local-first apps and enable data synchronization with other devices and users."

### [Going local-first with Tauri v2 🦀 and Gleam 🤩](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPO1UT3NE6o)
Livestream walkthrough by Jan Ehrhardt.

### [p2panda](https://github.com/p2panda)
"p2panda is a user-friendly peer-to-peer protocol for secure, energy-efficient local-first web applications"


## ✨ Apps

### [Cap: Open source Loom alternative](https://cap.so/)
"We're now focused on being local first. Cap is 100% free to use locally." - [Cap on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41741422)

### [WorkWeek: Accurate time tracking, faster payroll.](https://www.workweek.co.za/)
"[W]e teamed up with PowerSync. Thanks to their local-first magic, our users can log hours, verify work, and stay productive—even if they’re battling more tumbleweeds than cell towers." - [WorkWeek on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7247588625926791168/)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
