editions/2024.10.24.md, before:

# 2024.10.24

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [localfirst.fm #15 - Anselm Eickhoff: Jazz](https://www.localfirst.fm/15)
"The guest of this episode is Anselm Eickhoff, creator of Jazz and founder of Garden Computing. This conversation will dive deep into Jazz to learn how it works and which use cases it’s a good fit for by exploring various apps already built on top of Jazz."

### [Is One the Future of Web and Mobile Development?](https://dev.to/mitchiemt11/is-one-the-future-of-web-and-mobile-development-df5)
"Nate and the One team are also addressing the long-standing pain point of data synchronization, especially in local-first apps."

### [Sync Protocols and the Truth Behind Local-First](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1vtp52Ytc_w)
"In this episode of Databased, Tom Redman leads a discussion joined by Sujay Jayaker and James Cowling, two scientists behind Dropbox's synchronization protocol. They cover database synchronization in general, what it means alongside the local-first movement, and what went into designing sync at Convex."

### [Reminder: LoFi/20 community meetup (upcoming event)](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
LoFi/20 is scheduled for Tuesday October 29th at 8am PT, with talks by **@expede** ("Beehive: Local-first with E2EE & mutation control"), **@nextgraph** ("Local-first web of data: presenting NextGraph"), and **@devYonz** ("Vella.ai MVP Product Hunt launch").


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local First Svelte, by Scott Tolinski (talk)](https://youtu.be/fAPFsRP-mbc?t=8463)
Talk at Svelte Summit Fall 2024 by **@stolinski**.

### [Why is everybody talking about sync engines?](https://fika.bar/blogs/paoramen/why-is-everybody-talking-about-sync-engines-01JAAEZTCMZA28DSESAJR3J30J)
Tells the story of a team that gathers to fix their outdated product, sparking debates over different ways to synchronize state. Serves as a high-level introduction to sync engines. See also [Lobsters discussion](https://lobste.rs/s/grv7hp/why_is_everybody_talking_about_sync).

### [Create a Native-Like App in 4 Steps: PWA Magic with Vue 3 and Vite](https://alexop.dev/posts/create-pwa-vue3-vite-4-steps/)
"PWAs are also a main ingredient in building local-first applications."

### [Local first AI assistant Kin leverages Turso's libSQL for on-device native Vector Search](https://turso.tech/blog/local-first-ai-assistant-kin-leverages-tursos-libsql-for-on-device-native-vector-search)
"That’s why we built Kin as a local first mobile app that runs as much as possible on-device. Doing machine learning on-device also allows us to take advantage of all the AI smarts in the new generations of mobile chips, which in turn requires the data to be local."

### [Exploring InstantDB: A New Approach to Local-First Databases](https://dev.to/abdulkadir_saloum_770fee4/exploring-instantdb-a-new-approach-to-local-first-databases-1j1p)
"It’s a local-first database, meaning it works offline and syncs in real-time effortlessly."

### [Building Document-Centric, CRDT-Native Editors](https://blocksuite.io/blog/document-centric.html)
From the team behind AFFiNE, "a privacy-focused, local-first, open-source, and ready-to-use alternative for Notion & Miro." (previously featured on _Local-First News_)


## ✨ Apps

### [DunTasks — get tasks dun, quicker](https://dunsuite.com/duntasks)
"Want to build a local-first app sync engine? Here's what I did for @DunTasks. I tried so many options & finally settled on this simple approach. I used Automerge to handle the CRDT stuff." - [**@spikeysanju**](https://x.com/spikeysanju/status/1847348406118650363)

### [NotesHub — Markdown-based note-taking app](https://about.noteshub.app/)
"The Web version is implemented as a Progressive Web Application that is very responsive, local first, offline first, can be installed, and is entirely free to use." - [alex-titarenko on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41808943)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2024.10.24.md: add Loro 1.0 post

editions/2024.10.24.md, after:

# 2024.10.24

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [localfirst.fm #15 - Anselm Eickhoff: Jazz](https://www.localfirst.fm/15)
"The guest of this episode is Anselm Eickhoff, creator of Jazz and founder of Garden Computing. This conversation will dive deep into Jazz to learn how it works and which use cases it’s a good fit for by exploring various apps already built on top of Jazz."

### [Is One the Future of Web and Mobile Development?](https://dev.to/mitchiemt11/is-one-the-future-of-web-and-mobile-development-df5)
"Nate and the One team are also addressing the long-standing pain point of data synchronization, especially in local-first apps."

### [Sync Protocols and the Truth Behind Local-First](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1vtp52Ytc_w)
"In this episode of Databased, Tom Redman leads a discussion joined by Sujay Jayaker and James Cowling, two scientists behind Dropbox's synchronization protocol. They cover database synchronization in general, what it means alongside the local-first movement, and what went into designing sync at Convex."

### [Reminder: LoFi/20 community meetup (upcoming event)](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
LoFi/20 is scheduled for Tuesday October 29th at 8am PT, with talks by **@expede** ("Beehive: Local-first with E2EE & mutation control"), **@nextgraph** ("Local-first web of data: presenting NextGraph"), and **@devYonz** ("Vella.ai MVP Product Hunt launch").


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local First Svelte, by Scott Tolinski (talk)](https://youtu.be/fAPFsRP-mbc?t=8463)
Talk at Svelte Summit Fall 2024 by **@stolinski**.

### [Why is everybody talking about sync engines?](https://fika.bar/blogs/paoramen/why-is-everybody-talking-about-sync-engines-01JAAEZTCMZA28DSESAJR3J30J)
Tells the story of a team that gathers to fix their outdated product, sparking debates over different ways to synchronize state. Serves as a high-level introduction to sync engines. See also [Lobsters discussion](https://lobste.rs/s/grv7hp/why_is_everybody_talking_about_sync).

### [Create a Native-Like App in 4 Steps: PWA Magic with Vue 3 and Vite](https://alexop.dev/posts/create-pwa-vue3-vite-4-steps/)
"PWAs are also a main ingredient in building local-first applications."

### [Local first AI assistant Kin leverages Turso's libSQL for on-device native Vector Search](https://turso.tech/blog/local-first-ai-assistant-kin-leverages-tursos-libsql-for-on-device-native-vector-search)
"That’s why we built Kin as a local first mobile app that runs as much as possible on-device. Doing machine learning on-device also allows us to take advantage of all the AI smarts in the new generations of mobile chips, which in turn requires the data to be local."

### [Exploring InstantDB: A New Approach to Local-First Databases](https://dev.to/abdulkadir_saloum_770fee4/exploring-instantdb-a-new-approach-to-local-first-databases-1j1p)
"It’s a local-first database, meaning it works offline and syncs in real-time effortlessly."

### [Building Document-Centric, CRDT-Native Editors](https://blocksuite.io/blog/document-centric.html)
From the team behind AFFiNE, "a privacy-focused, local-first, open-source, and ready-to-use alternative for Notion & Miro." (previously featured on _Local-First News_)

### [Loro 1.0](https://loro.dev/blog/v1.0)
"Loro is a Conflict-free Replicated Data Type (CRDT) library that developers can use to implement real-time collaboration and version control in their applications. You can use Loro to create local-first software. Loro 1.0 has a stable data format, excellent performance, and rich features."


## ✨ Apps

### [DunTasks — get tasks dun, quicker](https://dunsuite.com/duntasks)
"Want to build a local-first app sync engine? Here's what I did for @DunTasks. I tried so many options & finally settled on this simple approach. I used Automerge to handle the CRDT stuff." - [**@spikeysanju**](https://x.com/spikeysanju/status/1847348406118650363)

### [NotesHub — Markdown-based note-taking app](https://about.noteshub.app/)
"The Web version is implemented as a Progressive Web Application that is very responsive, local first, offline first, can be installed, and is entirely free to use." - [alex-titarenko on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41808943)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
