editions/2024.10.03.md, before:

# 2024.10.03

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [A Local-First Case Study](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/a-local-first-case-study/)
"Dusting off the blog to write about a local-first web app I built and what it taught me about the current local-first ecosystem!" - **@jlazaroff**. See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41712593).

### [localfirst.fm #15 – Tuomas Artman: Linear, sync engines, rethought startup MVP](https://www.localfirst.fm/15)
"The guest of this episode is Tuomas Artman, co-founder and CTO of Linear. Prior to Linear, Tuomas had already built sync engines for over a decade at companies like Groupon and Uber. This conversation will explore how local-first and software quality was crucial for Linear’s success and how the concept of a startup MVP should be rethought."

### [The Local-First Development Approach: Balancing Independence and Connectivity](https://publish.obsidian.md/andgate/posts/Local-First)
"Let’s start with a bold statement: local-first is about freedom. It gives developers and users independence from potentially unreliable internet connections, reduces latency, and offers more control over personal data. In essence, you’re building a self-contained ecosystem on your machine, only reaching out to the cloud when absolutely necessary."

### [Local Thirst NYC](https://lu.ma/localthirst-nyc) & [Local Thirst SF](https://lu.ma/localthirst-sf)
"A happy hour for people interested in local-first software, realtime databases, multiplayer apps, distributed systems, CRDTs, and sync engines. Sponsored by Jamsocket and Instant."

### [Introducing Web Applets (upcoming talk)](https://berlin.causalislands.com/)
"@rupertmanfredi joins us to give a lightning talk 'Introducing Web Applets' — a new open standard for allowing language models to use rich, graphical software, built upon the web. They are small, local-first, interoperable bits of software." At Causal Islands, October 4–5, 2024 in Berlin, Germany. 


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Offline UX Patterns (github.com/expensify)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41679149)
Expensify's [Offline UX Patterns](https://github.com/Expensify/App/blob/main/contributingGuides/OFFLINE_UX.md) guide was recently posted to Hacker News. "Understanding the offline behavior of our app is vital to becoming a productive contributor to the Expensify codebase. Our mission is to support our users in every possible environment, and often our app is used in places where a stable internet connection is not guaranteed."

### [Clace: AppServer for containerized web app development and deployment](https://github.com/claceio/clace)
"I have been building Clace, an application server for local-first software. Clace runs on your machine (Linux/macOS/Windows, using Docker or Podman) and allows you to install any number of web apps, from source code or from image. Apps scale down to zero when idle. Clace is the only local-first solution I am aware of  which supports this. This allows you to run many apps locally, without worrying about wasted CPU/memory resources." - Ajay on the [LoFi community](https://localfirstweb.dev/) Discord.


## ✨ Apps

### [Moment: A modern docs platform](https://www.moment.dev/)
"We have finally launched our local-first product and excited to get people to try it." - **@@litacho**. 

### [Kin: A personal AI](https://mykin.ai/)
"Local First: Your data lives on your device, powered by a state-of-the-art embedded transactional, relational-graph-vector database."

### [Bracket](https://bracket.game/)
"Real-time social markets for sports & live events." — **@BracketHQ 
_Uses PowerSync._


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

Added ViteConf talk and fixed formatting

editions/2024.10.03.md, after:

# 2024.10.03

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [A Local-First Case Study](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/a-local-first-case-study/)
"Dusting off the blog to write about a local-first web app I built and what it taught me about the current local-first ecosystem!" - **@jlazaroff**. See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41712593).

### [localfirst.fm #15 – Tuomas Artman: Linear, sync engines, rethought startup MVP](https://www.localfirst.fm/15)
"The guest of this episode is Tuomas Artman, co-founder and CTO of Linear. Prior to Linear, Tuomas had already built sync engines for over a decade at companies like Groupon and Uber. This conversation will explore how local-first and software quality was crucial for Linear’s success and how the concept of a startup MVP should be rethought."

### [The Local-First Development Approach: Balancing Independence and Connectivity](https://publish.obsidian.md/andgate/posts/Local-First)
"Let’s start with a bold statement: local-first is about freedom. It gives developers and users independence from potentially unreliable internet connections, reduces latency, and offers more control over personal data. In essence, you’re building a self-contained ecosystem on your machine, only reaching out to the cloud when absolutely necessary."

### [Local Thirst NYC](https://lu.ma/localthirst-nyc) & [Local Thirst SF](https://lu.ma/localthirst-sf)
"A happy hour for people interested in local-first software, realtime databases, multiplayer apps, distributed systems, CRDTs, and sync engines. Sponsored by Jamsocket and Instant."

### [The Future of the Web is Local First](https://viteconf.org/24/schedule)
Talk by **@BHolmesDev** at ViteConf, October 3-4, 2024, free online.

### [Introducing Web Applets (upcoming talk)](https://berlin.causalislands.com/)
"@rupertmanfredi joins us to give a lightning talk 'Introducing Web Applets' — a new open standard for allowing language models to use rich, graphical software, built upon the web. They are small, local-first, interoperable bits of software." At Causal Islands, October 4–5, 2024 in Berlin, Germany. 


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Offline UX Patterns (github.com/expensify)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41679149)
Expensify's [Offline UX Patterns](https://github.com/Expensify/App/blob/main/contributingGuides/OFFLINE_UX.md) guide was recently posted to Hacker News. "Understanding the offline behavior of our app is vital to becoming a productive contributor to the Expensify codebase. Our mission is to support our users in every possible environment, and often our app is used in places where a stable internet connection is not guaranteed."

### [Clace: AppServer for containerized web app development and deployment](https://github.com/claceio/clace)
"I have been building Clace, an application server for local-first software. Clace runs on your machine (Linux/macOS/Windows, using Docker or Podman) and allows you to install any number of web apps, from source code or from image. Apps scale down to zero when idle. Clace is the only local-first solution I am aware of  which supports this. This allows you to run many apps locally, without worrying about wasted CPU/memory resources." - Ajay on the [LoFi community](https://localfirstweb.dev/) Discord.


## ✨ Apps

### [Moment: A modern docs platform](https://www.moment.dev/)
"We have finally launched our local-first product and excited to get people to try it." - **@@litacho**. 

### [Kin: A personal AI](https://mykin.ai/)
"Local First: Your data lives on your device, powered by a state-of-the-art embedded transactional, relational-graph-vector database."

### [Bracket](https://bracket.game/)
"Real-time social markets for sports & live events." — **@BracketHQ** 
_Uses PowerSync._


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
