editions/2024.08.22.md, before:

# 2024.08.22

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Local-first is more than just a software problem](https://x.com/raymmar_/status/1825895054596018262)
Podcast episode / video by **@raymmar_**: "Local-first software is about more than just software. It's about people, it's about protecting your privacy, it's about data, it's about building relationships that mirror the real world."

### [Third Wave (Commercial) Open Source](https://www.deobald.ca/essays/2024-08-13-third-wave-commercial-open-source/)
"I’d argue that the principles of local-first software ... are about to become the new ideals of open source software." - **@deobald**

### [Liveness, Literacy, Local First, Lambdas and Llamas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yba08vezJyU)
Keynote talk by Gilad Bracha at LambdaConf2024. "Gilad [discusses] the concept of live programming and its connection to literate, local-first, and functional programming."

### [Stripe's Monorepo Developer Environment](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41258932)
A blog post submitted to Hacker News, with a discussion on local versus remote development environments. 

### ["The new breed of local-first software requires a new operating environment"](https://x.com/_feynon/status/1825798242908647837)
An interesting idea from **@_feynon**: local-first requires "a new browser that can leverage all the siloed data with on-device multimodal LLMs and agents across apps in a privacy-respecting way."

### ["the missing piece is reducing complexity."](https://x.com/abraguilera_/status/1825833249127477647)
"imho to make local first the default way we build apps, the missing piece is reducing complexity." - interesting thoughts from **@abraguilera_**.


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local-first architecture with Expo](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/local-first/)
"An introduction to the emerging local-first software movement, including links to relevant learning resources and tools." By [**@expo**](https://x.com/expo/status/1825925013196718280).

### [Broadcasting messages on Chrome extensions](https://medium.com/@wilkerlucio/broadcasting-messages-on-chrome-extensions-6f7718c662f5)
Article by **@wilkerlucio** on building a local-first YouTube Looper Chrome extension using Automerge and Tinybase.

### [How local-first provides a better developer experience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ovdcUtW4tWY)
Video by **@powersync_** that examines 7 developer benefits of local-first app architecture (disclosure: PowerSync is a sponsor of this newsletter).

### [Legend State](https://www.legendstate.com/)
"High performance state and local first sync." "Perfect day to announce I’m taking Legend State to the next level with Legend Kit: a starter kit with tons of components, integrations with popular frameworks and UI kits" - [**@jmeistrich**](https://x.com/jmeistrich/status/1825969913498054772)

### [BlockSuite](https://blocksuite.io/)
"BlockSuite is a toolkit for building editors and collaborative applications." 


## ✨ Apps

### [Readwise Reader](https://readwise.io/read)
"The first read-it-later app for power readers." "Reader syncs across a powerful, local-first web app, iOS app, and Android app."

### [AFFiNE](https://affine.pro/)
"Write, Draw, Plan - a next-gen knowledge base and open-source alternative to Notion & Miro." v0.16 recently released. 

### [Language Garden](https://lang.garden/)
"language garden was made to help you learn about programming languages and interpreters." "local-first means 1M users can try this overnight and since the compute is offloaded to the client" - [**@bmorphism**](https://x.com/bmorphism/status/1825845027995791645)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

2024.08.22.md: add johannes schickling quote

editions/2024.08.22.md, after:

# 2024.08.22

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Local-first is more than just a software problem](https://x.com/raymmar_/status/1825895054596018262)
Podcast episode / video by **@raymmar_**: "Local-first software is about more than just software. It's about people, it's about protecting your privacy, it's about data, it's about building relationships that mirror the real world."

### [Third Wave (Commercial) Open Source](https://www.deobald.ca/essays/2024-08-13-third-wave-commercial-open-source/)
"I’d argue that the principles of local-first software ... are about to become the new ideals of open source software." - **@deobald**

### [Liveness, Literacy, Local First, Lambdas and Llamas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yba08vezJyU)
Keynote talk by Gilad Bracha at LambdaConf2024. "Gilad [discusses] the concept of live programming and its connection to literate, local-first, and functional programming."

### [Stripe's Monorepo Developer Environment](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41258932)
A blog post submitted to Hacker News, with a discussion on local versus remote development environments. 

### ["The new breed of local-first software requires a new operating environment"](https://x.com/_feynon/status/1825798242908647837)
An interesting idea from **@_feynon**: local-first requires "a new browser that can leverage all the siloed data with on-device multimodal LLMs and agents across apps in a privacy-respecting way."

### ["[T]he missing piece is reducing complexity."](https://x.com/abraguilera_/status/1825833249127477647)
"imho to make local first the default way we build apps, the missing piece is reducing complexity." - interesting thoughts from **@abraguilera_**.

### ["Most apps should use a sync engine instead of doing RPC."](https://x.com/schickling/status/1826338840153571362)
"It's more clear to me now than ever before: This will become the new default for future app development." - **@schickling**


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local-first architecture with Expo](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/local-first/)
"An introduction to the emerging local-first software movement, including links to relevant learning resources and tools." By [**@expo**](https://x.com/expo/status/1825925013196718280).

### [Broadcasting messages on Chrome extensions](https://medium.com/@wilkerlucio/broadcasting-messages-on-chrome-extensions-6f7718c662f5)
Article by **@wilkerlucio** on building a local-first YouTube Looper Chrome extension using Automerge and Tinybase.

### [How local-first provides a better developer experience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ovdcUtW4tWY)
Video by **@powersync_** that examines 7 developer benefits of local-first app architecture (disclosure: PowerSync is a sponsor of this newsletter).

### [Legend State](https://www.legendstate.com/)
"High performance state and local first sync." "Perfect day to announce I’m taking Legend State to the next level with Legend Kit: a starter kit with tons of components, integrations with popular frameworks and UI kits" - [**@jmeistrich**](https://x.com/jmeistrich/status/1825969913498054772)

### [BlockSuite](https://blocksuite.io/)
"BlockSuite is a toolkit for building editors and collaborative applications." 


## ✨ Apps

### [Readwise Reader](https://readwise.io/read)
"The first read-it-later app for power readers." "Reader syncs across a powerful, local-first web app, iOS app, and Android app."

### [AFFiNE](https://affine.pro/)
"Write, Draw, Plan - a next-gen knowledge base and open-source alternative to Notion & Miro." v0.16 recently released. 

### [Language Garden](https://lang.garden/)
"language garden was made to help you learn about programming languages and interpreters." "local-first means 1M users can try this overnight and since the compute is offloaded to the client" - [**@bmorphism**](https://x.com/bmorphism/status/1825845027995791645)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
