editions/2024.12.05.md, before:

# 2024.12.05


## 📰 News & Discussions

### [localfirst.fm #18 – James Arthur: ElectricSQL, read-path syncing, PGLite](https://www.localfirst.fm/18)
"The guest of this episode is James Arthur, founder and CEO of Electric SQL, a Postgres-centric sync engine for local-first apps. This conversation will dive deep into how Electric works and explore its design decisions such as read-path syncing and using HTTP as the network layer to improve scalability. Towards the end we are also covering PGLite, a new Postgres in WASM project by Electric."

### [An introduction to local-first apps — Spiros Martzoukos at CityJS Athens 2024 (talk)](https://youtu.be/LqZp57NLSiU?t=92)
"I'm going to talk about local-first apps, so if you want to learn how I built Makkuro with Replicache (and some insights in other players, such as PowerSync, EletricSQL, LiveStorejs) come over." - [@martzoukos](https://x.com/martzoukos/status/1860261486255329634)

### [Local-First Meetup Berlin #2 (upcoming event)](https://lu.ma/sq5hpu2x)
Scheduled for December 12 at 6:30pm CET. Talks: Anselm Eickhoff: How we built practical local-first permissions; James Arthur: Local-first with your existing API; Kevin Jahns: Yjs; Bartosz Sypytkowski: Yrs - what we've learned?; Vojtech Rinik: Using SQLite with MobX in Reflect



## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local First AI: Libraries, Models, Algorithms and Tools](https://www.peterkoraca.com/blog/local-first-ai)
"Over the last 10 years, there has been a huge expansion of JavaScript AI/ML libraries that enable embedding AI into client-side bundles and serverless functions and cater for various use cases. This article lists a few of the libraries I found most useful in the past and highlights their uses."

### [Source Network: Pioneering Decentralized Data Solutions](https://source.network/)
"The Source ecosystem fuels developers to complete the transition to a fully realized decentralized web. Our collaborative suite of components enables the necessary data management capabilities, and enhanced user control over data and privacy protocols."

### [Electric.Phoenix](https://hexdocs.pm/electric_phoenix/Electric.Phoenix.html)
"We've actually also implemented Phoenix sync using Electric [...] So you can have local-first sync in a Phoenix app using Electric. And you can use Electric to sync data into a LiveView using Phoenix.Streams, which is a very natural fit." - [thruflo on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42316436)


## ✨ Apps
	
### [Show HN: TeaTime – distributed book library powered by SQLite, IPFS and GitHub](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42256104)
"Everything is done in the browser - no users, no cookies, no tracking. LocalStorage and IndexedDB are used for saving your last readings, and your position in each file."

### [Gather — a local-first collections client](https://gather.directory/)
"Gather is a local-first app for archiving, cultivating, and curating multimedia data collections. works completely offline, all data stored on-device, and optionally syncs to external data sources."

### [Liha - Open Source Second Brain App](https://liha.rugvedsomwanshi.in/)
"Hey guys! I am building a new open source, a local first app called Liha (which means to write in the language Marathi)"


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2024.12.05.md: add Jacob Bolda video

editions/2024.12.05.md, after:

# 2024.12.05


## 📰 News & Discussions

### [localfirst.fm #18 – James Arthur: ElectricSQL, read-path syncing, PGLite](https://www.localfirst.fm/18)
"The guest of this episode is James Arthur, founder and CEO of Electric SQL, a Postgres-centric sync engine for local-first apps. This conversation will dive deep into how Electric works and explore its design decisions such as read-path syncing and using HTTP as the network layer to improve scalability. Towards the end we are also covering PGLite, a new Postgres in WASM project by Electric."

### [An introduction to local-first apps — Spiros Martzoukos at CityJS Athens 2024 (talk)](https://youtu.be/LqZp57NLSiU?t=92)
"I'm going to talk about local-first apps, so if you want to learn how I built Makkuro with Replicache (and some insights in other players, such as PowerSync, EletricSQL, LiveStorejs) come over." - [@martzoukos](https://x.com/martzoukos/status/1860261486255329634)

### [Local-First Meetup Berlin #2 (upcoming event)](https://lu.ma/sq5hpu2x)
Scheduled for December 12 at 6:30pm CET. Talks: Anselm Eickhoff: How we built practical local-first permissions; James Arthur: Local-first with your existing API; Kevin Jahns: Yjs; Bartosz Sypytkowski: Yrs - what we've learned?; Vojtech Rinik: Using SQLite with MobX in Reflect

### [Current Local-First Landscape by Jacob Bolda (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zgguEaFlZeI)
"The local-first landscape is evolving. Let's check the current and up and coming options."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Local First AI: Libraries, Models, Algorithms and Tools](https://www.peterkoraca.com/blog/local-first-ai)
"Over the last 10 years, there has been a huge expansion of JavaScript AI/ML libraries that enable embedding AI into client-side bundles and serverless functions and cater for various use cases. This article lists a few of the libraries I found most useful in the past and highlights their uses."

### [Source Network: Pioneering Decentralized Data Solutions](https://source.network/)
"The Source ecosystem fuels developers to complete the transition to a fully realized decentralized web. Our collaborative suite of components enables the necessary data management capabilities, and enhanced user control over data and privacy protocols."

### [Electric.Phoenix](https://hexdocs.pm/electric_phoenix/Electric.Phoenix.html)
"We've actually also implemented Phoenix sync using Electric [...] So you can have local-first sync in a Phoenix app using Electric. And you can use Electric to sync data into a LiveView using Phoenix.Streams, which is a very natural fit." - [thruflo on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42316436)


## ✨ Apps
	
### [Show HN: TeaTime – distributed book library powered by SQLite, IPFS and GitHub](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42256104)
"Everything is done in the browser - no users, no cookies, no tracking. LocalStorage and IndexedDB are used for saving your last readings, and your position in each file."

### [Gather — a local-first collections client](https://gather.directory/)
"Gather is a local-first app for archiving, cultivating, and curating multimedia data collections. works completely offline, all data stored on-device, and optionally syncs to external data sources."

### [Liha - Open Source Second Brain App](https://liha.rugvedsomwanshi.in/)
"Hey guys! I am building a new open source, a local first app called Liha (which means to write in the language Marathi)"


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
