editions/2024.08.29.md, before:

# 2024.08.29

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Recapping the first Local‑First conference in 15 minutes](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/recapping-the-first-local-first-conference-in-15-minutes)
Andrey Sitnik (**@sitnikcode**) recaps the main idea of every talk from Local‑First Conf, which took place in Berlin on May 30th 2024.

### [Local-First (LoFi) Meetup #18 (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6a78MtPUSw&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=22)
The LoFi #18 meetup took place on Tuesday August 27th, with talks by **@prashant_mit** (on [Creole Network](https://shovel.company/)), **@getifyX** (on [Local Vault](https://github.com/mylofi/local-vault)), and **@matthew_linkous** (on [Triplit](https://www.triplit.dev/)). 

### [Show HN: InstantDB – A Modern Firebase](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41322281)
Show HN post by InstantDB announcing open-sourcing their product, "a client-side database that makes it easy to build real-time and collaborative apps like Notion and Figma."

### [Small Data SF 2024 Conference - September 23-24 in San Francisco](https://www.smalldatasf.com/2024/)
"We are organizing a unique conference to promote local-first development and small data in person in San Francisco!" - **@mehd_io**

### [Software Possession for Personal Use](https://olano.dev/blog/software-possession-for-personal-use/)
Discusses the frustrations with modern software, particularly how the shift from desktop to cloud-based platforms has led to losses in privacy, control, and user autonomy, and advocates for local-first software, self-hosting, and decentralized systems. See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41300888).

### [How Apple built iCloud to store billions of databases](https://read.engineerscodex.com/p/how-apple-built-icloud-to-store-billions)
"Apple uses Cassandra and FoundationDB for CloudKit, their cloud backend service. We take a look into how exactly each is used within their cloud and the problems they've solved."

### ["There are two ways to look at it: Short-lived apps and long-lived apps."](https://x.com/PatrickJS__/status/1827484768902246833)
**@PatrickJS\_\_** argues that SSR makes more sense for short-lived apps whereas SPAs "having local state" makes more sense for "long-lived apps" such as dashboards.

### [What are the worst UX issues you see on the web today?](https://www.reddit.com/r/UXDesign/comments/1f3hr8x/what_are_the_worst_ux_issues_you_see_on_the_web/)
"My number one is slow waiting times. After using offline-first applications like Linear, I think I have become totally intolerant to applications that make me wait for every UI action made."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [When does local-first make sense? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLRtC53rwCg)
Video by Simon Grimm (**@schlimmson**) on when local-first makes sense, including several real-world examples.

### [DWeb Deep Dive: Authoring Decentralized App Protocols (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wh5Cndgcc_E)
"Join Daniel Buchner ... to learn about authoring protocols for decentralized web nodes (DWNs)."

### [NextGraph: Build local-first and decentralized apps](https://nextgraph.org/)
"Based on CRDTs, NextGraph brings about the convergence between P2P and Semantic Web, towards a secure and privacy-preserving cloud"

### [Logux](https://logux.org/)
"Framework for real-time web apps with optimistic UI, collaboration, edit conflicts resolution with CRDT and live updates"

### [RxDB Fulltext Search Beta](https://rxdb.info/fulltext-search.html)
"Excited to announce the new RxDB Fulltext Search Plugin powered by FlexSearch" - **@rxdbjs**

### [ElectricSQL electric-next vs PowerSync](https://www.powersync.com/blog/electricsql-electric-next-vs-powersync)
Post by **@cahofmeyr** of **@powersync_** comparing ElectricSQL's new 'electric-next' to PowerSync — sync engines designed to work with existing Postgres databases.


## ✨ Apps

### [Tender: The inbox for your finances](https://tender.run/)
"I’ve been building a personal finance app that runs fully in the browser (using the automerge crdt and sqlite) for over a year now" - [stpn on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41343192).

### [InfoFlow](https://www.infoflow.app/)
"Local first, privacy focused read-it-later and personal knowledge management (PKMS) tool." By **@WildCat_io**.

### [BeFit](https://trybefit.app/)
By **@nossesteve**. [Uses PowerSync and Supabase](https://x.com/nossesteve/status/1828119128168878219).


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

2024.08.29.md: add 5000x faster CRDTs HN thread

editions/2024.08.29.md, after:

# 2024.08.29

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [Recapping the first Local‑First conference in 15 minutes](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/recapping-the-first-local-first-conference-in-15-minutes)
Andrey Sitnik (**@sitnikcode**) recaps the main idea of every talk from Local‑First Conf, which took place in Berlin on May 30th 2024.

### [Local-First (LoFi) Meetup #18 (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F6a78MtPUSw&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=22)
The LoFi #18 meetup took place on Tuesday August 27th, with talks by **@prashant_mit** (on [Creole Network](https://shovel.company/)), **@getifyX** (on [Local Vault](https://github.com/mylofi/local-vault)), and **@matthew_linkous** (on [Triplit](https://www.triplit.dev/)). 

### [Show HN: InstantDB – A Modern Firebase](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41322281)
Show HN post by InstantDB announcing open-sourcing their product, "a client-side database that makes it easy to build real-time and collaborative apps like Notion and Figma."

### [Small Data SF 2024 Conference - September 23-24 in San Francisco](https://www.smalldatasf.com/2024/)
"We are organizing a unique conference to promote local-first development and small data in person in San Francisco!" - **@mehd_io**

### [Software Possession for Personal Use](https://olano.dev/blog/software-possession-for-personal-use/)
Discusses the frustrations with modern software, particularly how the shift from desktop to cloud-based platforms has led to losses in privacy, control, and user autonomy, and advocates for local-first software, self-hosting, and decentralized systems. See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41300888).

### [How Apple built iCloud to store billions of databases](https://read.engineerscodex.com/p/how-apple-built-icloud-to-store-billions)
"Apple uses Cassandra and FoundationDB for CloudKit, their cloud backend service. We take a look into how exactly each is used within their cloud and the problems they've solved."

### [5000x faster CRDTs: An Adventure in Optimization](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41372833)
From 2021, re-posted to Hacker News and generating new discussion. 

### ["There are two ways to look at it: Short-lived apps and long-lived apps."](https://x.com/PatrickJS__/status/1827484768902246833)
**@PatrickJS\_\_** argues that SSR makes more sense for short-lived apps whereas SPAs "having local state" makes more sense for "long-lived apps" such as dashboards.

### [What are the worst UX issues you see on the web today?](https://www.reddit.com/r/UXDesign/comments/1f3hr8x/what_are_the_worst_ux_issues_you_see_on_the_web/)
"My number one is slow waiting times. After using offline-first applications like Linear, I think I have become totally intolerant to applications that make me wait for every UI action made."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [When does local-first make sense? (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLRtC53rwCg)
Video by Simon Grimm (**@schlimmson**) on when local-first makes sense, including several real-world examples.

### [DWeb Deep Dive: Authoring Decentralized App Protocols (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wh5Cndgcc_E)
"Join Daniel Buchner ... to learn about authoring protocols for decentralized web nodes (DWNs)."

### [NextGraph: Build local-first and decentralized apps](https://nextgraph.org/)
"Based on CRDTs, NextGraph brings about the convergence between P2P and Semantic Web, towards a secure and privacy-preserving cloud"

### [Logux](https://logux.org/)
"Framework for real-time web apps with optimistic UI, collaboration, edit conflicts resolution with CRDT and live updates"

### [RxDB Fulltext Search Beta](https://rxdb.info/fulltext-search.html)
"Excited to announce the new RxDB Fulltext Search Plugin powered by FlexSearch" - **@rxdbjs**

### [ElectricSQL electric-next vs PowerSync](https://www.powersync.com/blog/electricsql-electric-next-vs-powersync)
Post by **@cahofmeyr** of **@powersync_** comparing ElectricSQL's new 'electric-next' to PowerSync — sync engines designed to work with existing Postgres databases.


## ✨ Apps

### [Tender: The inbox for your finances](https://tender.run/)
"I’ve been building a personal finance app that runs fully in the browser (using the automerge crdt and sqlite) for over a year now" - [stpn on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41343192).

### [InfoFlow](https://www.infoflow.app/)
"Local first, privacy focused read-it-later and personal knowledge management (PKMS) tool." By **@WildCat_io**.

### [Thymer: The editor for tasks and planning](https://thymer.com/)
"Thymer[1] uses CRDTs for everything. It's an IDE for tasks and planning. It's a multiplayer app, end-to-end encrypted and offline first, optionally self-hosted, and an entire workspace is a single graph. So CRDTs were the logical choice." - [jdvh on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41374429).

### [BeFit](https://trybefit.app/)
By **@nossesteve**. [Uses PowerSync and Supabase](https://x.com/nossesteve/status/1828119128168878219).


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
