editions/2024.11.28.md, before:

# 2024.11.28


## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/21 community meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nmPFItDKFsA&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=21)
LoFi/21 was held on Tuesday November 26th at 8am PT, with talks by Felicia Chang ([@felchang](https://x.com/felchang)), from [@jamsockethq](https://x.com/jamsockethq), Sahil Lalani ([@SahilLalani0](https://x.com/SahilLalani0)) and Zixuan Chen ([@zx_loro](https://x.com/zx_loro)) from [@loro_dev](https://x.com/loro_dev).


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [LiveStore: SQLite-based data layer for local-first apps](https://expo.dev/blog/local-first-application-development-with-livestore)
Introducing: LiveStore - the client-centric, local-first data layer for high performance applications. Post on Expo blog by [@schickling.dev](https://bsky.app/profile/schickling.dev).


## ✨ Apps





## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

Added ghost.org migration news

editions/2024.11.28.md, after:

# 2024.11.28


## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/21 community meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nmPFItDKFsA&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=21)
LoFi/21 was held on Tuesday November 26th at 8am PT, with talks by Felicia Chang ([@felchang](https://x.com/felchang)), from [@jamsockethq](https://x.com/jamsockethq), Sahil Lalani ([@SahilLalani0](https://x.com/SahilLalani0)) and Zixuan Chen ([@zx_loro](https://x.com/zx_loro)) from [@loro_dev](https://x.com/loro_dev).

### [Local-First News has migrated to ghost.org](https://www.localfirstnews.com/)
After a few too many paper cuts on Buttondown, Local-First News is now using [ghost.org](https://ghost.org/) for site hosting, member management and email. Nothing changes for subscribers, except the added ability to comment on posts. Onwards!

## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [LiveStore: SQLite-based data layer for local-first apps](https://expo.dev/blog/local-first-application-development-with-livestore)
Introducing: LiveStore - the client-centric, local-first data layer for high performance applications. Post on Expo blog by [@schickling.dev](https://bsky.app/profile/schickling.dev).


## ✨ Apps





## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
