editions/2024.10.17.md, before:

# 2024.10.17

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [LoFi/20 community meetup (upcoming event)](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
LoFi/20 is scheduled for Tuesday October 29th at 8am PT, with talks by **@expede** ("Beehive: Local-first with E2EE & mutation control"), **@nextgraph** ("Local-first web of data: presenting NextGraph"), and **@devYonz** ("Vella.ai MVP Product Hunt launch").

### [Supabase co-sponsoring a research role focused on PGlite](https://x.com/kiwicopple/status/1846272996358672489)
Paul Copplestone (**@kiwicopple**), CEO of Supabase, announced that "@supabase is co-sponsoring a research role with the @ElectricSQL team to work on pglite" "What’s pglite? It’s a small postgres build that runs in the browser."

### ["Building an offline-first, cloud-sync app is hard."](https://x.com/daniel_nguyenx/status/1845821560453763115)
**@daniel_nguyenx** shares his thoughts on this problem. "You're basically building a distributed system where the majority of nodes are not in your control (client computers)."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [What is Sync? | Convex](https://stack.convex.dev/sync)
"sync-esque solutions are one of the most promising avenues into a future where distributed state management is significantly less onerous for application developers." "My prediction: within ten years, most applications will be built on a variation of a sync platform rather than traditional server endpoints and state management."

### [Sqlite3 WebAssembly (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41851051)
The documentation for the SQLite project's WebAssembly- and JavaScript-related APIs, "which enable the use of sqlite3 in modern WASM-capable browsers" was posted to Hacker News recently and generated quite a lot of discussion.


## ✨ Apps

### [Stride - engineering calcs and documentation](https://www.get-stride.com/)
"Local-first Markdown-based engineering calcs and documentation" - [weikequ_ on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41802892)

### [Aurelius - distraction-free writing app](https://aurelius.ink/)
"Local-first, but can sync data between different browsers or devices without signup. Sync is also end-to-end encrypted." - [ilangorajagopal on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41827598)

### [PeerSplit – P2P Splitwise alternative](https://peersplit.app/)
"P2P syncing – Your data stays yours. Peer-to-peer collaboration means no servers storing anything. Local-first – Works fully offline." - [tanaykarnik on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41849831)

### [Tetr - Text yourself notes, tasks, and more.](https://tetr.app/)
"I have working to replicate TanStack query experience by writing my own queries wrapped around PowerSync, although actually on Flutter (using Flutter Hooks! which was cool to use coming from React). It’s a very internal design meant for my app tetr right now" - [gagik_co on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41851686)

### [Recall - Track and revisit your thoughts](https://www.recall.plus/)
"I built [Recall] offline-first with @powersync_ - game changer from a UX perspective as the latency between user actions and the local db is almost non-existent" - [**@marty_dyz**](https://x.com/marty_dyz/status/1846310842708455931)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2024.10.17.md: add rxdb.info new article

editions/2024.10.17.md, after:

# 2024.10.17

## 📰 News & Discussions 

### [LoFi/20 community meetup (upcoming event)](https://localfirstweb.dev/)
LoFi/20 is scheduled for Tuesday October 29th at 8am PT, with talks by **@expede** ("Beehive: Local-first with E2EE & mutation control"), **@nextgraph** ("Local-first web of data: presenting NextGraph"), and **@devYonz** ("Vella.ai MVP Product Hunt launch").

### [Supabase co-sponsoring a research role focused on PGlite](https://x.com/kiwicopple/status/1846272996358672489)
Paul Copplestone (**@kiwicopple**), CEO of Supabase, announced that "@supabase is co-sponsoring a research role with the @ElectricSQL team to work on pglite" "What’s pglite? It’s a small postgres build that runs in the browser."

### ["Building an offline-first, cloud-sync app is hard."](https://x.com/daniel_nguyenx/status/1845821560453763115)
**@daniel_nguyenx** shares his thoughts on this problem. "You're basically building a distributed system where the majority of nodes are not in your control (client computers)."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [What is Sync? | Convex](https://stack.convex.dev/sync)
"sync-esque solutions are one of the most promising avenues into a future where distributed state management is significantly less onerous for application developers." "My prediction: within ten years, most applications will be built on a variation of a sync platform rather than traditional server endpoints and state management."

### [LocalStorage vs. IndexedDB vs. Cookies vs. OPFS vs. WASM-SQLite](https://rxdb.info/articles/localstorage-indexeddb-cookies-opfs-sqlite-wasm.html)
"In this article, we will dive into the various technologies available for storing and querying data in a browser. We'll explore traditional methods like Cookies, localStorage, WebSQL, IndexedDB and newer solutions such as OPFS and SQLite via WebAssembly."

### [Sqlite3 WebAssembly (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41851051)
The documentation for the SQLite project's WebAssembly- and JavaScript-related APIs, "which enable the use of sqlite3 in modern WASM-capable browsers" was posted to Hacker News recently and generated quite a lot of discussion.


## ✨ Apps

### [Stride - engineering calcs and documentation](https://www.get-stride.com/)
"Local-first Markdown-based engineering calcs and documentation" - [weikequ_ on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41802892)

### [Aurelius - distraction-free writing app](https://aurelius.ink/)
"Local-first, but can sync data between different browsers or devices without signup. Sync is also end-to-end encrypted." - [ilangorajagopal on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41827598)

### [PeerSplit – P2P Splitwise alternative](https://peersplit.app/)
"P2P syncing – Your data stays yours. Peer-to-peer collaboration means no servers storing anything. Local-first – Works fully offline." - [tanaykarnik on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41849831)

### [Tetr - Text yourself notes, tasks, and more.](https://tetr.app/)
"I have working to replicate TanStack query experience by writing my own queries wrapped around PowerSync, although actually on Flutter (using Flutter Hooks! which was cool to use coming from React). It’s a very internal design meant for my app tetr right now" - [gagik_co on HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41851686)

### [Recall - Track and revisit your thoughts](https://www.recall.plus/)
"I built [Recall] offline-first with @powersync_ - game changer from a UX perspective as the latency between user actions and the local db is almost non-existent" - [**@marty_dyz**](https://x.com/marty_dyz/status/1846310842708455931)


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
