editions/2025.06.05.md, before:

# 2025.06.05

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [Technically Speaking: How $400 million Runs on a 25 Person Team](https://paulhovley.substack.com/p/technically-speaking-how-400-million)
"Let me first start off by saying, Linear has done something incredible and worthy of emulating. The reason I’m diving into the nuts and bolts of their sync engine is because I am inspired by work like theirs."

### [From Prisma Founder to LiveStore: Building local-first apps with Johannes Schickling (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKTbGIrkrLE)
"Johannes Schickling, original founder of Prisma, joins me to talk about LiveStore, his ambitious local-first data layer designed to rethink how we build apps from the data layer up. We dive deep into event sourcing, syncing with SQLite, and why this approach might power the next generation of reactive apps."

### [Reverse engineering of Linear's sync engine (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=44123131)
"Reverse Engineering Linear's Sync Engine" by Evan Hu (previously featured on Local-First News) made the rounds on Hacker News. 

### [Local-first and alternatives to GDPR popup (talk video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jruS1S_63qc)
Talk by Andrey Sitnik at Svelte Summit Spring 2025.

### [Real World Local First with Svelte (talk video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q2C3hZYmqsQ)
Talk by Scott Tolinski at Svelte Summit Spring 2025.

### [Local First: Collaboration Beyond Cloud (upcoming talk)](https://webdirections.org/code/speakers/kritiketan-sharma.php)
"This talk challenges the cloud-first status quo and invites developers to explore the power of local-first." Melbourne, Australia, June 12 & 13

### [Redwood is sponsoring Johannes from LiveStore](https://rwsdk.com/blog/rwsdk-x-livestore)
"Following in the footsteps of Clerk’s Open Source Fellowship program and their sponsorship of Zod, we’re thrilled to announce a sister project! We’ll be sponsoring Johannes Schickling from LiveStore to build an adapter for Cloudflare."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [SurrealDB](https://github.com/surrealdb/surrealdb)
"A scalable, distributed, collaborative, document-graph database, for the realtime web"

## ✨ Apps

### [Noteworthy](https://noteworthy.ink/)
"A free, open-source, local-first Markdown editor built with ProseMirror. Works directly with your local files, entirely offline."

### [AuthPass](https://authpass.app/)
"Free and Open Source password manager for Android, iOS, MacOS, Linux and Windows. Compatible with KeePass."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

Add Neighborhoodie LFC recap post

editions/2025.06.05.md, after:

# 2025.06.05

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [Technically Speaking: How $400 million Runs on a 25 Person Team](https://paulhovley.substack.com/p/technically-speaking-how-400-million)
"Let me first start off by saying, Linear has done something incredible and worthy of emulating. The reason I’m diving into the nuts and bolts of their sync engine is because I am inspired by work like theirs."

### [Local-First Conf Recap](https://neighbourhood.ie/blog/2025/06/04/local-first-conf-recap)
"The Neighbourhoodie team attended the 2025 edition of the local-first conference and community day in Berlin and we are very happy we did."

### [From Prisma Founder to LiveStore: Building local-first apps with Johannes Schickling (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aKTbGIrkrLE)
"Johannes Schickling, original founder of Prisma, joins me to talk about LiveStore, his ambitious local-first data layer designed to rethink how we build apps from the data layer up. We dive deep into event sourcing, syncing with SQLite, and why this approach might power the next generation of reactive apps."

### [Reverse engineering of Linear's sync engine (Hacker News)](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=44123131)
"Reverse Engineering Linear's Sync Engine" by Evan Hu (previously featured on Local-First News) made the rounds on Hacker News. 

### [Local-first and alternatives to GDPR popup (talk video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jruS1S_63qc)
Talk by Andrey Sitnik at Svelte Summit Spring 2025.

### [Real World Local First with Svelte (talk video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q2C3hZYmqsQ)
Talk by Scott Tolinski at Svelte Summit Spring 2025.

### [Local First: Collaboration Beyond Cloud (upcoming talk)](https://webdirections.org/code/speakers/kritiketan-sharma.php)
"This talk challenges the cloud-first status quo and invites developers to explore the power of local-first." Melbourne, Australia, June 12 & 13

### [Redwood is sponsoring Johannes from LiveStore](https://rwsdk.com/blog/rwsdk-x-livestore)
"Following in the footsteps of Clerk’s Open Source Fellowship program and their sponsorship of Zod, we’re thrilled to announce a sister project! We’ll be sponsoring Johannes Schickling from LiveStore to build an adapter for Cloudflare."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [SurrealDB](https://github.com/surrealdb/surrealdb)
"A scalable, distributed, collaborative, document-graph database, for the realtime web"

## ✨ Apps

### [Noteworthy](https://noteworthy.ink/)
"A free, open-source, local-first Markdown editor built with ProseMirror. Works directly with your local files, entirely offline."

### [AuthPass](https://authpass.app/)
"Free and Open Source password manager for Android, iOS, MacOS, Linux and Windows. Compatible with KeePass."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
