editions/2025.05.15.md, before:

# 2025.05.15

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [Exploring interoperability & composability for local-first software](https://whtwnd.com/grjte.sh/3lne2va62nc2y)
"This is the third exploration connecting local-first software with the AT Protocol (atproto). Previously, I explored how atproto can enable new functionality for local-first software by providing distribution and legibility. Now, I'll focus on interoperability and composability—how we can combine data from multiple local-first applications, privately and seamlessly"

### [Our Flag Means Local-First (Picture Me Coding podcast)](https://www.picturemecoding.com/2222783/episodes/17139738-our-flag-means-local-first)
"This week Mike and Erik talk about the local-first software movement. There's a pretty cool paper about it from 2019 called 'Local-First Software: You Own Your Data, in spite of the Cloud', and there's also a podcast, a company, and various projects. Come get inspired to build stuff!"

### [Introducing Phoenix.Sync - ElixirConf EU 2025 (upcoming conference talk)](https://www.elixirconf.eu/keynotes/keynote-phoenix-sync-with-electricsql/)
"This talk introduces Phoenix.Sync, a new library that adds real-time sync to Postgres-backed Phoenix applications." - Friday 16 May, 09:10am CEST/UTC+02, Kraków & Virtual


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Yjs - An Engine for Modern Collaborative Apps](https://mr19.xyz/blog/understanding-yjs/)
"Yjs is a powerful JS library that enables real-time collaboration in web applications without requiring a central server. It embeds conflict resolution directly in the data structure, allowing for true offline-first experiences where users can work locally and sync automatically when online. In this article, I dive deep into how Yjs works under the hood."

### [TanStack DB](https://github.com/TanStack/db)
"TanStack DB extends TanStack Query with collections, live queries and optimistic mutations that keep your UI reactive, consistent and blazing fast"

### [SignalDB: Local-First JavaScript Database with Signals](https://signaldb.js.org/)
"Build offline-capable apps that stay fast and responsive, with real-time sync across any backend."

### [Use Drizzle Transactions in Zero](https://www.solberg.is/zero-custom-db-connection)
"This level of control and integration with existing data access patterns on the server is a really strong point for Zero, especially for complex applications or teams already invested in a particular ORM."


## ✨ Apps

### [git-bug: a decentralized issue tracker](https://github.com/git-bug/git-bug)
"git-bug is a standalone, distributed, offline-first issue management tool that embeds issues, comments, and more as objects in a git repository (not files!), enabling you to push and pull them to one or more remotes."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

editions/2025.05.15.md: local Prisma Postgres

editions/2025.05.15.md, after:

# 2025.05.15

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [Exploring interoperability & composability for local-first software](https://whtwnd.com/grjte.sh/3lne2va62nc2y)
"This is the third exploration connecting local-first software with the AT Protocol (atproto). Previously, I explored how atproto can enable new functionality for local-first software by providing distribution and legibility. Now, I'll focus on interoperability and composability—how we can combine data from multiple local-first applications, privately and seamlessly"

### [Our Flag Means Local-First (Picture Me Coding podcast)](https://www.picturemecoding.com/2222783/episodes/17139738-our-flag-means-local-first)
"This week Mike and Erik talk about the local-first software movement. There's a pretty cool paper about it from 2019 called 'Local-First Software: You Own Your Data, in spite of the Cloud', and there's also a podcast, a company, and various projects. Come get inspired to build stuff!"

### [Introducing Phoenix.Sync - ElixirConf EU 2025 (upcoming conference talk)](https://www.elixirconf.eu/keynotes/keynote-phoenix-sync-with-electricsql/)
"This talk introduces Phoenix.Sync, a new library that adds real-time sync to Postgres-backed Phoenix applications." - Friday 16 May, 09:10am CEST/UTC+02, Kraków & Virtual


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Yjs - An Engine for Modern Collaborative Apps](https://mr19.xyz/blog/understanding-yjs/)
"Yjs is a powerful JS library that enables real-time collaboration in web applications without requiring a central server. It embeds conflict resolution directly in the data structure, allowing for true offline-first experiences where users can work locally and sync automatically when online. In this article, I dive deep into how Yjs works under the hood."

### [TanStack DB](https://github.com/TanStack/db)
"TanStack DB extends TanStack Query with collections, live queries and optimistic mutations that keep your UI reactive, consistent and blazing fast"

### [SignalDB: Local-First JavaScript Database with Signals](https://signaldb.js.org/)
"Build offline-capable apps that stay fast and responsive, with real-time sync across any backend."

### [Use Drizzle Transactions in Zero](https://www.solberg.is/zero-custom-db-connection)
"This level of control and integration with existing data access patterns on the server is a really strong point for Zero, especially for complex applications or teams already invested in a particular ORM."


## ✨ Apps

### [git-bug: a decentralized issue tracker](https://github.com/git-bug/git-bug)
"git-bug is a standalone, distributed, offline-first issue management tool that embeds issues, comments, and more as objects in a git repository (not files!), enabling you to push and pull them to one or more remotes."

### [Local development for Prisma Postgres](https://www.prisma.io/blog/prisma-6-8-0-release)
"Testing your database shouldn’t depend on cloud access. [...] Local Prisma Postgres is based on PGLite"


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
