editions/2025.08.28.md, before:

# 2025.08.28

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/29 Community Meetup (talks/video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3983rz8ja1U&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=29)
The LoFi/29 community meetup took place on Tuesday August 26th, with talks by Jan Lehnardt ("How to sync anything"), Mauve ("Peer to peer mapping with CoMapeo") and Alex Clemmer ("Building a truly offline-first, collaborative text editing product")

### [Materialized views are obviously useful](https://sophiebits.com/2025/08/22/materialized-views-are-obviously-useful)
"You get to cut out all of that application code that’s dealing with keeping things in sync and make dealing with the stateful data updates someone else’s job."

### [Sequoia Backs Zed's Vision for Collaborative Coding](https://zed.dev/blog/sequoia-backs-zed)
"Our vision is turn your IDE into a collaborative workspace where humans and AI agents work together across a range of time scales, with every insight preserved and linked to the code forever. To make this possible, we're building DeltaDB: a new kind of version control that tracks every operation, not just commits. DeltaDB uses CRDTs to incrementally record and synchronize changes as they happen."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [Introduction to AT Protocol](https://mackuba.eu/2025/08/20/introduction-to-atproto/)
"This should also be a good starting point if you want to start building some apps or tools on ATProto." See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=44965233)

### [Syncing Room Persistence with PowerSync in Kotlin Multiplatform](https://blakelee.net/mobile-clientserver-database-syncing-with-supabasepowerbase/)
"By combining PowerSync for syncing and Room for relational modeling + reactive queries, you get the best of both worlds: Reliable Supabase-powered sync. Clean Room-based data access. It’s not without risks (ordering, paths, internal logs), but once wired up, it feels seamless."

### [LlamaFarm - Build Powerful AI Locally, Deploy Anywhere](https://github.com/llama-farm/llamafarm)
"🏠 Local-First Development - Build and test entirely on your machine"


## ✨ Apps

### [Peersuite](https://github.com/openconstruct/Peersuite)
"Peersuite is an open source, decentralized, private alternative to apps like Discord or Slack. All data is sent only between clients through encrypted WebRTC channels. There is no server."

### [Relay](https://relay.md/)
"Relay brings Obsidian to life for your team. Local-first, private, and always in your control."

### [PuffinPilot](https://www.puffinpilot.app/)
"Offline First: Your data is always with you, no internet needed. Privacy Focused: Encrypted data, from your device to the cloud, your data is yours and will never be shared with third parties." "Tech stack : Flutter, Powersync, Supabase... and a old-school website in raw HTML (yep, I know 👴)"

### [To To-Do](https://www.producthunt.com/products/to-to-do)
"Offline-first – works seamlessly across devices thanks to Dexie.js & Dexie Cloud."

### [Show HN: I made PromptMask, a local LLM-based privacy filter for cloud LLMs](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45033726)
"It uses a trusted local LLM (via Ollama, llama.cpp, etc.) to intercept your prompt before it goes to a cloud service like OpenAI. It finds sensitive data and replaces it with semantic placeholders. Only the anonymized prompt is sent to the cloud. When the response returns, PromptMask uses the map to restore your original data, so that your secrets never leave your machine."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

Add Expo synced in-app SQLite blog post

editions/2025.08.28.md, after:

# 2025.08.28

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/29 Community Meetup (talks/video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3983rz8ja1U&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=29)
The LoFi/29 community meetup took place on Tuesday August 26th, with talks by Jan Lehnardt ("How to sync anything"), Mauve ("Peer to peer mapping with CoMapeo") and Alex Clemmer ("Building a truly offline-first, collaborative text editing product")

### [Materialized views are obviously useful](https://sophiebits.com/2025/08/22/materialized-views-are-obviously-useful)
"You get to cut out all of that application code that’s dealing with keeping things in sync and make dealing with the stateful data updates someone else’s job."

### [Sequoia Backs Zed's Vision for Collaborative Coding](https://zed.dev/blog/sequoia-backs-zed)
"Our vision is turn your IDE into a collaborative workspace where humans and AI agents work together across a range of time scales, with every insight preserved and linked to the code forever. To make this possible, we're building DeltaDB: a new kind of version control that tracks every operation, not just commits. DeltaDB uses CRDTs to incrementally record and synchronize changes as they happen."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [What synced in-app SQLite brings to Expo apps](https://expo.dev/blog/what-synced-in-app-sqlite-brings-to-expo-apps)
"In this post, we’ll walk through exactly how to combine PowerSync and Expo (and, in this case Supabase as our backend database), to bring flow state joy to full stack development." - [@Chriztiaan_dev](https://x.com/Chriztiaan_dev)

### [Introduction to AT Protocol](https://mackuba.eu/2025/08/20/introduction-to-atproto/)
"This should also be a good starting point if you want to start building some apps or tools on ATProto." See also [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=44965233)

### [Syncing Room Persistence with PowerSync in Kotlin Multiplatform](https://blakelee.net/mobile-clientserver-database-syncing-with-supabasepowerbase/)
"By combining PowerSync for syncing and Room for relational modeling + reactive queries, you get the best of both worlds: Reliable Supabase-powered sync. Clean Room-based data access. It’s not without risks (ordering, paths, internal logs), but once wired up, it feels seamless."

### [LlamaFarm - Build Powerful AI Locally, Deploy Anywhere](https://github.com/llama-farm/llamafarm)
"🏠 Local-First Development - Build and test entirely on your machine"


## ✨ Apps

### [Peersuite](https://github.com/openconstruct/Peersuite)
"Peersuite is an open source, decentralized, private alternative to apps like Discord or Slack. All data is sent only between clients through encrypted WebRTC channels. There is no server."

### [Relay](https://relay.md/)
"Relay brings Obsidian to life for your team. Local-first, private, and always in your control."

### [PuffinPilot](https://www.puffinpilot.app/)
"Offline First: Your data is always with you, no internet needed. Privacy Focused: Encrypted data, from your device to the cloud, your data is yours and will never be shared with third parties." "Tech stack : Flutter, Powersync, Supabase... and a old-school website in raw HTML (yep, I know 👴)"

### [To To-Do](https://www.producthunt.com/products/to-to-do)
"Offline-first – works seamlessly across devices thanks to Dexie.js & Dexie Cloud."

### [Show HN: I made PromptMask, a local LLM-based privacy filter for cloud LLMs](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45033726)
"It uses a trusted local LLM (via Ollama, llama.cpp, etc.) to intercept your prompt before it goes to a cloud service like OpenAI. It finds sensitive data and replaces it with semantic placeholders. Only the anonymized prompt is sent to the cloud. When the response returns, PromptMask uses the map to restore your original data, so that your secrets never leave your machine."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
