editions/2025.10.02.md, before:

# 2025.10.02

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/30 Community Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GDQMLt3oqio&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=30)
The LoFi/30 community meetup took place on Tuesday September 30th, 2025, with talks by Noel De Martin ("Local-First, Solid and Everything in Between"), German Jablonski ("DocNode: CRDT and OT made easy"), and Akshay Kumar ("Building a Digital 'Room of Requirement' with CRDTs").

### [The Secret Life of a Local-First Value](https://marcobambini.substack.com/p/the-secret-life-of-a-local-first)
"A deep dive into how CRDT-powered local-first apps track, merge, and sync every INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE inside SQLite."

### [Local-Second, Event-Driven Webapps](https://softwaremill.com/local-second-event-driven-webapps/)
"[W]e can take some of the [local-first] ideas and apply them to create a 'local-second' solution. By default, the system would operate in a traditional, centralized client-server fashion. That is, a completely standard webapp+HTTP API. However, when there are network problems, we would degrade into an offline mode, which offers limited functionality."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [zustand-sync](https://github.com/ryanntannn/zustand-sync)
"A barebones middleware to sync zustand stores across multiple clients. zustand-sync uses JSON Patch (RFC 6902) under the hood to translate state changes into patches that can be sent over a transport layer."

### [Collaborative Text Editing Over PowerSync](https://www.powersync.com/blog/collaborative-text-editing-over-powersync)
"After meeting at Local-First Conf, Kobie and Conrad from the PowerSync team reached out to me about [...] if I could implement my talk Collaborative Text Editing without CRDTs or OT on top of PowerSync"

### [SpacetimeDB](https://spacetimedb.com/)
"With an SQL-style query language, real-time subscription queries, fully programmable permissions, transactional updates, and ultra high performance thanks to embedded application logic, [SpacetimeDB] is the next generation serverless database."


## ✨ Apps

### [DisasterNet](https://github.com/AbhinavXJ/DisasterNet)
"An offline-first, peer-to-peer emergency communication system built to communicate in disaster-prone areas where there is no connectivity to the internet."

### [Tilly](https://github.com/ccssmnn/tilly)
"Tilly is an open-source personal relationship manager that helps you stay connected with the people who matter most. Built as a React PWA with client-side sync, offline-first design, and optional agentic AI assistance." [Uses Jazz](https://github.com/ccssmnn/tilly?tab=readme-ov-file#setup).

### [MyTinyTools](https://www.mytinytools.com/)
"145+ lightning-fast tools for images, PDFs, text, and development. Everything runs in your browser—no uploads, no tracking."

### [Savr](https://github.com/jonocodes/savr)
"Savr is an app for saving online content to read later. It is file-centric, offline first, future proof, and favors decentralization."

### [Quadrants](https://amxmln.com/blog/2025/introducing-quadrants/)
"It is a local-first code playground designed around quickly trying out web design ideas, whether you’re at your desk or on the go."

### [Dualite](https://dualite.dev/)
"Dualite is a powerful AI-driven local-first frontend builder designed for developers, startups, and design teams to turn ideas into production-ready web and mobile applications directly in the browser."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).

Commit message:

Add section on Cinapse's experience with CRDTs
Added a new section discussing why Cinapse moved away from CRDTs for sync.

editions/2025.10.02.md, after:

# 2025.10.02

## 📰 News & Discussions

### [LoFi/30 Community Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GDQMLt3oqio&list=PLTbD2QA-VMnXFsLbuPGz1H-Najv9MD2-H&index=30)
The LoFi/30 community meetup took place on Tuesday September 30th, 2025, with talks by Noel De Martin ("Local-First, Solid and Everything in Between"), German Jablonski ("DocNode: CRDT and OT made easy"), and Akshay Kumar ("Building a Digital 'Room of Requirement' with CRDTs").

### [Why Cinapse Moved Away From CRDTs For Sync](https://www.powersync.com/blog/why-cinapse-moved-away-from-crdts-for-sync)
"CRDTs are an impressive and exciting technology, but they turned out to be a bad fit for our use case. Hopefully sharing our experience helps others who are considering building apps with real-time sync."

### [The Secret Life of a Local-First Value](https://marcobambini.substack.com/p/the-secret-life-of-a-local-first)
"A deep dive into how CRDT-powered local-first apps track, merge, and sync every INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE inside SQLite."

### [Local-Second, Event-Driven Webapps](https://softwaremill.com/local-second-event-driven-webapps/)
"[W]e can take some of the [local-first] ideas and apply them to create a 'local-second' solution. By default, the system would operate in a traditional, centralized client-server fashion. That is, a completely standard webapp+HTTP API. However, when there are network problems, we would degrade into an offline mode, which offers limited functionality."


## 🛠️ Tools & Resources

### [zustand-sync](https://github.com/ryanntannn/zustand-sync)
"A barebones middleware to sync zustand stores across multiple clients. zustand-sync uses JSON Patch (RFC 6902) under the hood to translate state changes into patches that can be sent over a transport layer."

### [Collaborative Text Editing Over PowerSync](https://www.powersync.com/blog/collaborative-text-editing-over-powersync)
"After meeting at Local-First Conf, Kobie and Conrad from the PowerSync team reached out to me about [...] if I could implement my talk Collaborative Text Editing without CRDTs or OT on top of PowerSync"

### [SpacetimeDB](https://spacetimedb.com/)
"With an SQL-style query language, real-time subscription queries, fully programmable permissions, transactional updates, and ultra high performance thanks to embedded application logic, [SpacetimeDB] is the next generation serverless database."


## ✨ Apps

### [DisasterNet](https://github.com/AbhinavXJ/DisasterNet)
"An offline-first, peer-to-peer emergency communication system built to communicate in disaster-prone areas where there is no connectivity to the internet."

### [Tilly](https://github.com/ccssmnn/tilly)
"Tilly is an open-source personal relationship manager that helps you stay connected with the people who matter most. Built as a React PWA with client-side sync, offline-first design, and optional agentic AI assistance." [Uses Jazz](https://github.com/ccssmnn/tilly?tab=readme-ov-file#setup).

### [MyTinyTools](https://www.mytinytools.com/)
"145+ lightning-fast tools for images, PDFs, text, and development. Everything runs in your browser—no uploads, no tracking."

### [Savr](https://github.com/jonocodes/savr)
"Savr is an app for saving online content to read later. It is file-centric, offline first, future proof, and favors decentralization."

### [Quadrants](https://amxmln.com/blog/2025/introducing-quadrants/)
"It is a local-first code playground designed around quickly trying out web design ideas, whether you’re at your desk or on the go."

### [Dualite](https://dualite.dev/)
"Dualite is a powerful AI-driven local-first frontend builder designed for developers, startups, and design teams to turn ideas into production-ready web and mobile applications directly in the browser."


## How to Contribute
Anyone can contribute to Local-First News with a pull request. Instructions and guidelines available [here](https://github.com/localfirstnews/localfirstnews).
